# vvvv gamma 2020.2.4
released on 25 11 20

[Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33313/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.4_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](http://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33313/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.4_setup_offline.exe)

### Changes
* More detailed progress messages on startup
* Less pressure on garbage collector while compiling
* Avoid boxing when reading/writing to `IVLPin<T>` 
  
### Bugfixes
* QRCodeEncoder working again + added ToImage node
* Fixed pin being marked as unused even though only its stored value was faulty
* Fixed invalid target code when turning if region into cache region (regression in 2020.2.3)
* Fixed adaptive CreateDefault implementations with different output pin name leading to crash (regression in 2020.2.3)
* Fixed invalid target code as well as assertion error when defined interface had a type resolution error on one of its pins

# vvvv gamma 2020.2.3
released on 17 11 20

[Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33265/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.3_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](http://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33265/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.3_setup_offline.exe)

### Changes
* Add parent categories to type rendering in case the type name is not unique in the current scope 
* IObox for composed types gets created allowing the user to specify the element type, if there is only one type parameter left. 
* Reverted adding the advanced flag to operations of a class in case it also defined a process

### Bugfixes
* The `internal` flag wasn't propagated down to instance operations in case it was set through the version
* Fixed backend crash when generating code for nodes with pin group using implicit this argument (like List.Add)
* Fixed invalid metadata name for document names containing special characters
* Fixed invalid target code being generated for interfaces with unused pins
* The cache region was rewritten to address certain corner cases when disposing its outputs
* Fixed crash in front-end when opening patches with higher order regions whose definition changed
* Fixed entry point not found in case it contained output pins 
* Fixed entry point not running or export failing after a saving a document under a different name.
* Fixed error dialog not popping up in case an exported app crashed
* Fixed backend crash when importing methods with default parameters on value types
* Fixed crash when interface inherits from itself 
* Fixed symbol not getting resolved in case one of the choices is an assembly which forwards its types 
* Fixed recursive patch using adaptive nodes causing emit error 
* Fixed emit error when loading patches with missing assemblies 
* Fixed compiler not being deterministic in case implementation for adaptive  node couldn't be found
* Fixed default value of adaptive implementation not working anymore when using pin group - this regression was exposed by camera calibration patch of OpenCV
* Serializer now is able to serialize a mutable Array
* Fixes on tooltip-based IOBoxes

# vvvv gamma 2020.2.2
released on 02 10 20

[Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33147/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.2_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](http://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33147/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.2_setup_offline.exe)

### Bugfixes
* Fixed referenced package version of Stride
* Fixed deadlock in vvvv beta UI when opening a node
* Fixed invalid target code in case a pin name contained an ampersand
* Exporter will first build a map of pre-defined packages (based on VL.Skia and VL.Stride) it will then use to replace assembly references so we get a proper solution with nuget package references
* Export using AnyCPU (fixes Stride asset compiler not finding assemblies) and use verbosity = minimal for logger
* Removed generic parameter on AppHost which caused static constructors to run too early (VL factory had no chance yet to initialize)

# vvvv gamma 2020.2.0
released on 24 09 20

[Installer](http://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33045/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.0_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](http://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:33045/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_2020.2.0_setup_offline.exe)


### Changes
* Xenko is now Stride. So we needed to switch as well.
* Runtime Warnings: The Warn node allows you to emmit warnings at runtime, allowing a library developer to communicate with the user in a soft way. A node gets orange (not pink), no exceptions are involved, no runtime hick-up, no panic. 
* Descriptive Tree Patching: With the TreeNodeParentManager & TreeNodeChildrenManager you can ensure that the user gets warned when the object graph patched via process nodes is no tree. 
* SingleInstancePerApp: A singleton mechanism that work per entry point (e.g. a help patch)
* S&R nodes (send & receive). These work per app. (Help patches will not collide when using the same channels). These make use of runtime warnings if something is off.
* `This` node allowing to access the own instance from within an instance operation, thus being able to call instance operations on yourself. Current limitations: Doesn't work in generic patches. Doesn't work on Create.
* Input pin groups now are visualized. There is also interaction support for more than one.
* GetLiveDataHubForSerializedID allows to inspect any data hub.
* DefaultValueInjection: When deactivating a fragment of a process node, all inputs get reset before the fragment isn't called anymore.
* Multiple node factories per assembly, little changes in IVLNodeDescriptionFactory
* State dispose fix in reactive foreach - now done on thread which created it
* Removed IDisposable constraint on ResourceProvider
* Serialization stackoverflow protection
* Skia fixes: SkiaSharp 1.68.0 -> 1.68.2-preview.45; window fullscreen fix; GRContext in CallerInfo
* Added handy math nodes: OneOver, OneMinus, ByTwo, ByHalf, etc
* Mainloop node to control the Application main loop
