# vvvv gamma 5.2
released on 09 06 23  
[Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:37342/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_5.2_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:37342/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_5.2_setup_offline.exe)

## New
* Ctrl + Shift + D duplicates the current selection including any incoming links. The newly pasted nodes will have the same connections as the original ones.
* Copy & paste now copies over relevant dependencies. 
* Channel supports bulk changes via BeginChange (help patch included)
* Refined Channel hot-swapping
* VL.IO.MIDI now coming with Global Channel Binding support
* Added `Optional<T>` hot-swapping
* Introduces a new error: ["You may not read from a pad on create"](https://github.com/vvvv/VL-Language/issues/62) Helps to avoid a certain mistake.

## Fixes
* Copy & paste bug fix: links assigned to create weren't on create after pasting them
* Replace With -> IOBox removes Slot (command accessible via context menu on pad)
* Fixes assembly load issue when using WinRT APIs 
* Fixes .HDE.vl extension files not getting recognized as pre-compiled (didn't show as pre-compiled)
* Fixes regression in 5.0 that patches would show up twice in "Also found in" section of help browser
* Fixes regression in 5.0 that on disconnect of fragmented `M<T>` pins, the fragment wouldn't get called one last time with `default(M<T>)` 
* Fixes UDP nodes crashing when passing an invalid IP address (regression introduced in 5.0)
* Fix for a Pause-on-Startup bug
* Solution explorer reports exceptions into log, rather than killing the app

## ImGui
* Fixes object editor not working properly on enums
* Improved labeling system: You don't need to worry about labels. vvvv ImGui wrapper generates `YourLabel##UniqueId` labels for you. 

# vvvv gamma 5.1
released on 24 05 23  
[Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:37324/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_5.1_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:37324/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_5.1_setup_offline.exe)

## Changes
* OSCClient can now send messages to multiple targets at the same time
* OSCClient can now receive messages back on the port it sent messages (useful e.g. when talking to SuperCollider)
* Channels got more versatile. Every `Channel<T>` now can be cast to a `Channel<Object` (and back if you know `T`). The `ChannelOfObject` property now is implemented by the same channel increasing performance for those cases where you talk to channels in a non-generic way.
* Channels now can set an author when writing to them. By checking `LatestAuthor` you can ignore messages that were sent by a certain author. (This way you can avoid "talking to yourself") 
* Introducing Global Channels
  * These are Channels that can be looked up by a "Channel Path" (which is a plain string) 
  * A `GlobalChannel` node gives dynamic access to them. You feed the Channel Path at runtime
  * They also end up as statically typed nodes inside `GlobalChannels` category
  * Modules can bind to them. Those are in active development (e.g. VL.IO.MIDI)
  * A "Global Channels Browser" window gives an overview over all global channels and their bindings. In help browser: search for "global"
* Managed slots get disposed in reverse execution order of how they got constructed. For example two process nodes A and B with a link from A to B, on `Dispose` B will be disposed before A.
* New node `Select (ByPath Dynamic)` which infers the type of the output channel from the property the given path points to - [forum](https://discourse.vvvv.org/t/cast-objects-from-type-name-as-string/21459/6)
* New advanced region `ReactOnMainThread [Reactive]` calls its region body on the main thread, even if the incoming Observable fires from a different thread. Node `ToMainThread [Reactive]` outputs an observable which runs on the main thread. Those make sense after a `Delay [Reactive]` or a `Throttle [Reactive]` as they don't fire in the main thread. (help patch available)
* New node `StartEagerly [Reactive]` turns a Channel into an Observable by starting with the current Channel value. This gets pushed on subscribe (as known from BehaviorSubjects)
* Hot-Swap support for `HashSet<T>`, `ConcurrentDictionary<T>`, `List<T>` added
* `Remove [Spread]` added. 
* `GetSlice (Channel)` added. It easily bi-directionally translates an index with the related entry in a spread of entries. (help patch available)
* Added `Channel` tooltip, which always shows current value. Up to now observable tooltip was stepping in, which only starts showing a value after the first observed push
* Added tooltip for `Optional<T>`

## Fixes
* The `--editable-packages` command line argument wasn't picked up when fed via args.txt
* Fixes a few emit exceptions (for example [forum](https://discourse.vvvv.org/t/mutableobservablecollection-changed-not-working/21474))
* Fixes Ctrl + T command on pads and when used with explicit type parameters
* Fixes regression in 5.0 that solution explorer would no longer navigate to a selected type forward
* Fixes rounding errors when dragging IO box numbers
* Fixes IO boxes no longer showing any values after their type changed
* Fixes compiler crash when patching inside of a package. The crash happended when patching inside of a package on a document which wasn't referenced by the package root document.
* Fixes compiler crash when generic interface inherits from another generic interface and type arguments can't be infered. We'll instead see now a proper error message for this specific case.
* Fixes assembly load failures when referencing them via path.
* Fixes parsing of type names using a version string during runtime.
* Fixes node factories from C# project references not getting picked up
* Fixes pin types and namings of `MutableObservableCollection`
* Fixes `Select (ByPath)` for when the source datatype changes: Swappable objects renew their state on the fly when accessed via VLPropertyInfo.GetValue.

## Stride
* Fixes OpenXR not working at all due to a dll load issue
* Fixes crash when disabling the VR system under OpenXR 
* Fixes literals inside of attributes not being picked up in case they use numeric suffixes. For example `[Default(2f)]` was not interpreted correctly.

## ImGui
* Fixes `ImGuiInputTextFlags.EnterReturnsTrue` not working on `Input` widgets
* Object editor uses `ImGuiInputTextFlags.EnterReturnsTrue` on its text and value editors
* Fixes docking layout not getting restored by `LoadIniSettingsFromMemory` & `LoadIniSettingsFromDisk`
* Fixes access violation when disposing patches using `LayerWidget`. The system crashed in case one called Update and Dispose on a patch using a LayerWidget in the same frame.
* Fixes access violation when placing table specific command nodes outside of a `Table`
* `Popup`, `Popup (Modal)`, `Window`, `CollapsingHeader` - which all have a Visible input channel - now can be set to short-lived: region body gets disposed on hide, and recreated on show

# vvvv gamma 5.0
released on 19 04 23  
[Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:37207/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_5.0_setup.exe) |
[Offline Installer](https://teamcity.vvvv.org/guestAuth/app/rest/builds/id:37207/artifacts/content/vvvv_gamma_5.0_setup_offline.exe)

## New
* Update to .NET 6
* Improved startup time and memory usage due to [packages now being read-only](https://thegraybook.vvvv.org/reference/language/compilation.html#read-only-packages)
* New commandline argument: `--editable-packages` to opt-out of the read-only default for individual packages
* All libraries are open source: [Introducing VL.StandardLibs](https://visualprogramming.net/blog/2023/introducing-vl.standardlibs/)
* C# projects can be referenced directly, allowing for a hybrid visual/textual workflow
* Support for "new" nuget packages
* Exported applications are of smaller size, they no longer have a dependency on VL.Lang
* Exporter stores its settings in a `*.props` file. That file (and/or an optional `*.targets` file) can be used to define custom actions on export
* ImGui library added, Channels refined for easy data binding  
* Lock regions added
* HDE API: added ActiveLiveCanvasStream
* New command (Ctrl + Shift + K) to create getters and setters (accessors) for selected pads in one go
* Nodes from external files (shaders, csproj) now have "Show in Explorer" entry in their context menu
* Adds new package `VL.TestFramework` which can be used by external libraries to test their documents
* Instances of generic types using adaptive nodes can get created dynamically. Used by AlchemX / Kairos.
* `New > C# File` and `New > Shader` dialogs for easy C# / Shader creation.
* Helpbrowser's `Learn` tab can be set to open by default.

## Changes
* Exported apps no longer have a `lib` subfolder where all the assemblies are. It was technically not possible to support this directory layout anylonger
* Improved [SymbolFinder](https://thegraybook.vvvv.org/reference/hde/finders.html#symbolfinder)
  * Works for documents from read-only packages, when the "Browsable packages" setting is activated
  * Improved search result ordering
  * Clarity: In second line, now shows package, then file
* Tooltip shows file path of shaders
* A `Path` is now serialized relative to the entry point and not the document where the call to `Serialize` is made
* Simplified adaptive node error message
* `VL.EditingFramework` is split into `VL.EditingFramework` and only Skia related `VL.EditingFramework.Skia`

## Fixes
* Improvements regarding stability and playfulness on hotswap, package compilation, exception handling
* Nodebrowser: got rid of some glitches 
* Opening recently saved documents should no longer showup as unsaved
* Fixes new installed HDE extensions not getting picked up 
* Bool IOBox: Fixes "bang iobox doesn't light up consistently when triggered from input".
* Fixes Elementa tooltips no longer working (regression introduced in 2021.4.11)
* Some [Skia performance improvements](https://discourse.vvvv.org/t/elementa-frame-rate-issues/20798/14)
* Fixes UDP nodes opening socket in first frame even though enabled == false
* Fixes DatagramSender node not completing its send tasks if incoming observable doesn't complete
* ResampleBSpline nodes: Closed mode fixed
* Fix for WithValueFromExpression, used by Channel.Select (ByPath)
* Open node command grayed out if stemming from a node factory
* Skia: 
  - `ImageWriter` keeps jpg/jpeg extension of the path if Jpeg format is selected
  - fixes `LottiePlayer` and adds `LottiePlayer (FrameBased)`


## Stride
* Update to [Stride 4.1](https://www.stride3d.net/blog/release-stride-4-1/) 
* Adds [support for OpenXR](https://visualprogramming.net/blog/2022/introducing-support-for-openxr/)
* Stride now uses the more modern [flip model](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3ddxgi/dxgi-flip-model) for its present path
* Increases the default of read back nodes from 3 to 5 frames and adds a runtime warning in case the GPU gets stalled by one of these nodes
* Fixes default value handling of compute shader inputs
* Fixes [newly created shaders not showing up](https://github.com/vvvv/VL.Stride/issues/491) if shaders folder wasn't present yet 
* Performance improvements for the `ImagePlayer` nodes
  * No more white flashes, because the frame to be displayed will be waited upon
  * Better resource utilization - the default pre-load count of 2 now leads to correct results
  * Increases the read buffer size from 128 KB to 8 MB thereby massivly reducing overall disk usage
* Adds new [Tesselation feature](https://github.com/vvvv/VL.Stride/pull/589) 
* Adds FlatCamera node
* Fixes double transformation of AxisAndGrid
* Fixes Stride.Redenring.Within... nodes
* `Insert` and `Insert (UV)` are added to the Stride.Texture.Utils
